---
title: The Spectrum is Simulated, but the Results are Real
date: 2018-03-11
---

To simulate a 2-Dimensional Infrared spectrum is no small feat—and to treat it exactly requires the impossibly cumbersome diagonalization of a huge Hamiltonian. When the terms in your Hamiltonian scale as x<sup>N</sup> and you’re looking at a mole of particles, it quickly becomes more trouble than it’s worth to attack with blunt force. You’re a scientist, with other projects and often more bugs to work out than a stray cat midsummer; the least of your worries should be a computer kicking back because you've asked it to manipulate more matrix than it can handle. Desperate times call for rational approximations, and in the case of CO<sub>2</sub> solvated in an ionic liquid (read: molten salt), one such approximation might be the semiclassical Optimized Mean Trajectory (OMT) method.

First things first: why CO<sub>2</sub> solvation? With high CO<sub>2</sub> emissions and a steady dependence on carbon-based fuels, the environment is getting pummeled on the daily. Even if we curtail the use of fossil fuels and cut annual emissions, the importance recapturing carbon from the atmosphere can’t be overstated. Ionic liquids (ILs) have potential as solvents in carbon capture, and current studies aim to screen different IL compositions and address drawbacks that prevent the scalability of ILs.

So, you want to determine the 2DIR spectrum of CO<sub>2</sub> in an IL. You want a way to preserve the phenomenological results arising from the quantum-mechanical nature of your system, while treating as many parameters as you can classically and thus, simply. In essence, you want to impose quantization conditions on a classically treated system—and if you’re thinking like Ramesh and Loring from Cornell University, you’ll do so with an OMT approach. You devise a model using a classical Hamiltonian for the coupled modes and treating the solvent as a stochastic modulation to the energy of the bending mode, then apply OMT to the model to calculate a 2D spectra. You then calculate trajectories for your particles, obtain a response function, and take a double Fourier transform, from which you can extract data relevant to your spectrum.

Provided you can justify the existence of “good” action variables, and can compute the response function as an equilibrium calculation, you’ll be in the clear to utilize their approach. These restrictions ensure the application of a quantization condition will be equivalent both in the future, and in the past, and let you circumvent the evaluation of a particularly pesky multidimensional integral on your path to a response function. Although “good” is an arbitrary metric, action variables are useful as they allow you to approximate frequencies, without completely solving the equations of motion for your system. This process is excellent for the qualitative simulation of the phenomena present in a 2DIR spectrum of solvated CO<sub>2</sub>. It demonstrates features corresponding to pure dephasing, energy relaxation, and coherence transfer expected from spectra of coupled anharmonic modes. Specifically, Ramesh and Loring found that the thermal fluctuations of the population of the bending mode can be observed as time-dependent features in the spectrum of the asymmetric stretch. This is a concrete example of the power of multidimensional spectroscopy to elucidate underlying dynamics in complex systems.

**Thermal Population Fluctuations in Two-Dimensional Infrared Spectroscopy Captured with Semiclassical Mechanics**  
Prashanth Ramesh and Roger F. Loring  
_The Journal of Physical Chemistry B Article ASAP_  
DOI: 10.1021/acs.jpcb.7b12122
